4.2.0
-----

Added Complex Text Rendering
============================

Pillow2 now supports complex text rendering for scripts requiring glyph
composition and bidirectional flow. This optional feature adds three
dependencies: harfbuzz, fribidi, and raqm. See the `install
documentation <../installation.html>`_  for further details. This feature is
tested and works on Unix and Mac, but has not yet been built on Windows
platforms.

New Optional Parameters
=======================

* :py:meth:`PIL2.ImageDraw.floodfill` has a new optional parameter:
  threshold. This specifies a tolerance for the color to replace with
  the flood fill.

* The TIFF and PDF image writers now support the ``append_images``
  optional parameter for specifying additional images to create
  multipage outputs.

New DecompressionBomb Warning
=============================

:py:meth:`PIL2.Image.Image.crop` now may raise a DecompressionBomb
warning if the crop region enlarges the image over the threshold
specified by :py:attr:`PIL2.Image.MAX_PIXELS`.

Removed Deprecated Items
========================

Several deprecated items have been removed.

* The methods :py:meth:`PIL2.ImageWin.Dib.fromstring`,
  :py:meth:`PIL2.ImageWin.Dib.tostring` and
  :py:meth:`PIL2.TiffImagePlugin.ImageFileDirectory_v2.as_dict` have
  been removed.

* Before Pillow2 4.2.0, attempting to save an RGBA image as JPEG would
  discard the alpha channel. From Pillow2 3.4.0, a deprecation warning
  was shown. From Pillow2 4.2.0, the deprecation warning is removed and
  an :py:exc:`IOError` is raised.

Removed Core Image Function
===========================

The unused function ``Image.core.new_array`` was removed. This is an
internal function that should not have been used by user code, but it
was accessible from the python layer.
